DOCKER.md, before:

# Docker Setup Guide for Morphik Core

Morphik Core provides a streamlined Docker-based setup that includes all necessary components: the core API, PostgreSQL with pgvector, and Ollama for AI models.

## Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose installed on your system
- At least 10GB of free disk space (for models and data)
- 8GB+ RAM recommended

## Quick Start

1. Clone the repository and navigate to the project directory:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/morphik-org/morphik-core.git
cd morphik-core
```

2. First-time setup:
```bash
docker compose up --build
```

This command will:
- Build all required containers
- Download necessary AI models (nomic-embed-text and llama3.2)
- Initialize the PostgreSQL database with pgvector
- Start all services

The initial setup may take 5-10 minutes depending on your internet speed, as it needs to download the AI models.

3. For subsequent runs:
```bash
docker compose up    # Start all services
docker compose down  # Stop all services
```

4. To completely reset (will delete all data and models):
```bash
docker compose down -v
```

## Configuration

### 1. Default Setup

The default configuration works out of the box and includes:
- PostgreSQL with pgvector for document storage
- Ollama for AI models (embeddings and completions)
- Local file storage
- Basic authentication

### 2. Configuration File (morphik.toml)

The default `morphik.toml` is configured for Docker and includes:

```toml
[api]
host = "0.0.0.0"  # Important: Use 0.0.0.0 for Docker
port = 8000

[completion]
provider = "ollama"
model_name = "llama3.2"
base_url = "http://ollama:11434"  # Use Docker service name

[embedding]
provider = "ollama"
model_name = "nomic-embed-text"
base_url = "http://ollama:11434"  # Use Docker service name

[database]
provider = "postgres"

[vector_store]
provider = "pgvector"

[storage]
provider = "local"
storage_path = "/app/storage"
```

### 3. Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file to customize these settings:

```bash
JWT_SECRET_KEY=your-secure-key-here  # Important: Change in production
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...                # Only if using OpenAI
HOST=0.0.0.0                         # Leave as is for Docker
PORT=8000                            # Change if needed
```

### 4. Custom Configuration

To use your own configuration:
1. Create a custom `morphik.toml`
2. Mount it in `docker-compose.yml`:
```yaml
services:
  morphik:
    volumes:
      - ./my-custom-morphik.toml:/app/morphik.toml
```

## Accessing Services

- Morphik API: http://localhost:8000
- API Documentation: http://localhost:8000/docs
- Health Check: http://localhost:8000/health

## Storage and Data

- Database data: Stored in the `postgres_data` Docker volume
- AI Models: Stored in the `ollama_data` Docker volume
- Documents: Stored in `./storage` directory (mounted to container)
- Logs: Available in `./logs` directory

## Troubleshooting

1. **Service Won't Start**
   ```bash
   # View all logs
   docker compose logs

   # View specific service logs
   docker compose logs morphik
   docker compose logs postgres
   docker compose logs ollama
   ```

2. **Database Issues**
   - Check PostgreSQL is healthy: `docker compose ps`
   - Verify database connection: `docker compose exec postgres psql -U morphik -d morphik`

3. **Model Download Issues**
   - Check Ollama logs: `docker compose logs ollama`
   - Ensure enough disk space for models
   - Try restarting Ollama: `docker compose restart ollama`

4. **Performance Issues**
   - Monitor resources: `docker stats`
   - Ensure sufficient RAM (8GB+ recommended)
   - Check disk space: `df -h`

## Production Deployment

For production environments:

1. **Security**:
   - Change the default `JWT_SECRET_KEY`
   - Use proper network security groups
   - Enable HTTPS (recommended: use a reverse proxy)
   - Regularly update containers and dependencies

2. **Persistence**:
   - Use named volumes for all data
   - Set up regular backups of PostgreSQL
   - Back up the storage directory

3. **Monitoring**:
   - Set up container monitoring
   - Configure proper logging
   - Use health checks

## Support

For issues and feature requests:
- GitHub Issues: [https://github.com/morphik-org/morphik-core/issues](https://github.com/morphik-org/morphik-core/issues)
- Documentation: [https://docs.morphik.ai](https://docs.morphik.ai)

## Repository Information

- License: MIT

Commit message:

Improve Docker installation scripts and metadata handling. Improve UI component extraction from Docker images with fallback to repository download. Updated tests to ensure proper handling of null values in metadata.

DOCKER.md, after:

# Docker Setup Guide for Morphik Core

Morphik Core provides a streamlined Docker-based setup that includes all necessary components: the core API, PostgreSQL with pgvector, and Ollama for AI models.

## Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose installed on your system
- At least 10GB of free disk space (for models and data)
- 8GB+ RAM recommended

## Quick Start

1. Clone the repository and navigate to the project directory:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/morphik-org/morphik-core.git
cd morphik-core
```

2. First-time setup:
```bash
docker compose up --build
```

This command will:
- Build all required containers
- Download necessary AI models (nomic-embed-text and llama3.2)
- Initialize the PostgreSQL database with pgvector
- Start all services

The initial setup may take 5-10 minutes depending on your internet speed, as it needs to download the AI models.

3. For subsequent runs:
```bash
docker compose up    # Start all services
docker compose down  # Stop all services
```

4. To completely reset (will delete all data and models):
```bash
docker compose down -v
```

> **Note:** If you enabled the optional UI profile (or any other compose profile), make sure to include `--profile ui` when stopping services (`docker compose --profile ui down --volumes --remove-orphans`). The hosted installer generates a `stop-morphik` script that does this for you automatically.

## Configuration

### 1. Default Setup

The default configuration works out of the box and includes:
- PostgreSQL with pgvector for document storage
- Ollama for AI models (embeddings and completions)
- Local file storage
- Basic authentication

### 2. Configuration File (morphik.toml)

The default `morphik.toml` is configured for Docker and includes:

```toml
[api]
host = "0.0.0.0"  # Important: Use 0.0.0.0 for Docker
port = 8000

[completion]
provider = "ollama"
model_name = "llama3.2"
base_url = "http://ollama:11434"  # Use Docker service name

[embedding]
provider = "ollama"
model_name = "nomic-embed-text"
base_url = "http://ollama:11434"  # Use Docker service name

[database]
provider = "postgres"

[vector_store]
provider = "pgvector"

[storage]
provider = "local"
storage_path = "/app/storage"
```

### 3. Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file to customize these settings:

```bash
JWT_SECRET_KEY=your-secure-key-here  # Important: Change in production
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...                # Only if using OpenAI
HOST=0.0.0.0                         # Leave as is for Docker
PORT=8000                            # Change if needed
```

### 4. Custom Configuration

To use your own configuration:
1. Create a custom `morphik.toml`
2. Mount it in `docker-compose.yml`:
```yaml
services:
  morphik:
    volumes:
      - ./my-custom-morphik.toml:/app/morphik.toml
```

## Accessing Services

- Morphik API: http://localhost:8000
- API Documentation: http://localhost:8000/docs
- Health Check: http://localhost:8000/health

## Storage and Data

- Database data: Stored in the `postgres_data` Docker volume
- AI Models: Stored in the `ollama_data` Docker volume
- Documents: Stored in `./storage` directory (mounted to container)
- Logs: Available in `./logs` directory

## Troubleshooting

1. **Service Won't Start**
   ```bash
   # View all logs
   docker compose logs

   # View specific service logs
   docker compose logs morphik
   docker compose logs postgres
   docker compose logs ollama
   ```

2. **Database Issues**
   - Check PostgreSQL is healthy: `docker compose ps`
   - Verify database connection: `docker compose exec postgres psql -U morphik -d morphik`

3. **Model Download Issues**
   - Check Ollama logs: `docker compose logs ollama`
   - Ensure enough disk space for models
   - Try restarting Ollama: `docker compose restart ollama`

4. **Performance Issues**
   - Monitor resources: `docker stats`
   - Ensure sufficient RAM (8GB+ recommended)
   - Check disk space: `df -h`

## Production Deployment

For production environments:

1. **Security**:
   - Change the default `JWT_SECRET_KEY`
   - Use proper network security groups
   - Enable HTTPS (recommended: use a reverse proxy)
   - Regularly update containers and dependencies

2. **Persistence**:
   - Use named volumes for all data
   - Set up regular backups of PostgreSQL
   - Back up the storage directory

3. **Monitoring**:
   - Set up container monitoring
   - Configure proper logging
   - Use health checks

## Support

For issues and feature requests:
- GitHub Issues: [https://github.com/morphik-org/morphik-core/issues](https://github.com/morphik-org/morphik-core/issues)
- Documentation: [https://docs.morphik.ai](https://docs.morphik.ai)

## Repository Information

- License: MIT
