sdks/python/README.md, before:

# Morphik

A Python client for Morphik API that enables document ingestion, semantic search, and retrieval augmented generation capabilities.

## 🚨 Upgrading to v1.0

**Breaking Change:** `list_documents()` now returns a `ListDocsResponse` object instead of a list.

**Quick Migration:**
```python
# Change this:
for doc in db.list_documents():
    process(doc)

# To this:
for doc in db.list_documents().documents:
    process(doc)
```

See [CHANGELOG.md](./CHANGELOG.md) for full details and new features.

---

## Installation

```bash
pip install morphik
```

## Usage

The SDK provides both synchronous and asynchronous clients:

### Synchronous Usage

```python
from morphik import Morphik

# Initialize client - connects to localhost:8000 by default
db = Morphik()

# Or with authentication URI (for production)
# db = Morphik("morphik://owner_id:token@api.morphik.ai")

# Ingest a text document
doc = db.ingest_text(
    content="Your document content",
    metadata={"title": "Example Document"}
)

# Ingest a file
doc = db.ingest_file(
    file="path/to/document.pdf",
    metadata={"category": "reports"}
)

# Run a Morphik On-the-Fly document query
doc_query = db.query_document(
    file="path/to/document.pdf",
    prompt="Extract the parties and effective date.",
    ingestion_options={"ingest": True, "metadata": {"source": "contracts"}}
)
print(doc_query.structured_output)

# Retrieve relevant chunks
chunks = db.retrieve_chunks(
    query="Your search query",
    filters={"category": "reports"}
)

# Query with RAG
response = db.query(
    query="Summarize the key points in the document",
    filters={"category": "reports"}
)

print(response.completion)
```

### Nested Folders & Folder Depth

```python
# Create a nested folder (parents are auto-created server-side)
folder = db.create_folder(full_path="/projects/alpha/specs", description="Specs folder")

# Scope queries to a path and include descendants with folder_depth=-1
chunks = folder.retrieve_chunks(query="design notes", folder_depth=-1)
docs = db.list_documents(folder_name="/projects/alpha", folder_depth=-1)
```

`Folder.full_path` is exposed on folder objects, and `Document.folder_path` mirrors server responses for tracing scope.

### Asynchronous Usage

```python
import asyncio
from morphik.async_ import AsyncMorphik

async def main():
    # Initialize async client - connects to localhost:8000 by default
    async with AsyncMorphik() as db:

    # Or with authentication URI (for production)
    # async with AsyncMorphik("morphik://owner_id:token@api.morphik.ai") as db:
        # Ingest a text document
        doc = await db.ingest_text(
            content="Your document content",
            metadata={"title": "Example Document"}
        )

        doc_query = await db.query_document(
            file="path/to/document.pdf",
            prompt="Extract the parties and effective date.",
            ingestion_options={"ingest": True, "metadata": {"source": "contracts"}}
        )
        print(doc_query.structured_output)

        # Query with RAG
        response = await db.query(
            query="Summarize the key points in the document",
        )

        print(response.completion)

# Run the async function
asyncio.run(main())
```

## Features

- Document ingestion (text, files, directories)
- Semantic search and retrieval
- Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG)
- Morphik On-the-Fly document querying with optional ingestion follow-up
- Multi-user and multi-folder scoping
- Metadata filtering
- Document management

## Development

### Running Tests

To run the tests, first install the development dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r test_requirements.txt
```

Then run the tests:

```bash
# Run all tests (requires a running Morphik server)
pytest morphik/tests/ -v

# Run specific test modules
pytest morphik/tests/test_sync.py -v
pytest morphik/tests/test_async.py -v

# Skip tests if you don't have a running server
SKIP_LIVE_TESTS=1 pytest morphik/tests/ -v

# Specify a custom server URL for tests
MORPHIK_TEST_URL=http://custom-server:8000 pytest morphik/tests/ -v
```

### Example Usage Script

The SDK comes with an example script that demonstrates basic usage:

```bash
# Run synchronous example
python -m morphik.tests.example_usage

# Run asynchronous example
python -m morphik.tests.example_usage --async
```

The example script demonstrates:
- Text and file ingestion
- Creating folders and user scopes
- Retrieving chunks and documents
- Generating completions using RAG
- Batch operations and cleanup

Commit message:

Harden document/folder metadata updates and add SDK folder move/rename APIs

sdks/python/README.md, after:

# Morphik

A Python client for Morphik API that enables document ingestion, semantic search, and retrieval augmented generation capabilities.

## 🚨 Upgrading to v1.0

**Breaking Change:** `list_documents()` now returns a `ListDocsResponse` object instead of a list.

**Quick Migration:**
```python
# Change this:
for doc in db.list_documents():
    process(doc)

# To this:
for doc in db.list_documents().documents:
    process(doc)
```

See [CHANGELOG.md](./CHANGELOG.md) for full details and new features.

---

## Installation

```bash
pip install morphik
```

## Usage

The SDK provides both synchronous and asynchronous clients:

### Synchronous Usage

```python
from morphik import Morphik

# Initialize client - connects to localhost:8000 by default
db = Morphik()

# You can also use a direct HTTP(S) base URL for self-hosted deployments
# db = Morphik("http://morphik:8000")

# Or with authentication URI (for production)
# db = Morphik("morphik://owner_id:token@api.morphik.ai")

# Ingest a text document
doc = db.ingest_text(
    content="Your document content",
    metadata={"title": "Example Document"}
)

# Ingest a file
doc = db.ingest_file(
    file="path/to/document.pdf",
    metadata={"category": "reports"}
)

# Run a Morphik On-the-Fly document query
doc_query = db.query_document(
    file="path/to/document.pdf",
    prompt="Extract the parties and effective date.",
    ingestion_options={"ingest": True, "metadata": {"source": "contracts"}}
)
print(doc_query.structured_output)

# Retrieve relevant chunks
chunks = db.retrieve_chunks(
    query="Your search query",
    filters={"category": "reports"}
)

# Query with RAG
response = db.query(
    query="Summarize the key points in the document",
    filters={"category": "reports"}
)

print(response.completion)
```

### Nested Folders & Folder Depth

```python
# Create a nested folder (parents are auto-created server-side)
folder = db.create_folder(full_path="/projects/alpha/specs", description="Specs folder")

# Move or rename folder paths
moved = db.move_folder("/projects/alpha/specs", "/projects/archive/specs")
renamed = moved.rename("specs-v2")

# Scope queries to a path and include descendants with folder_depth=-1
chunks = folder.retrieve_chunks(query="design notes", folder_depth=-1)
docs = db.list_documents(folder_name="/projects/alpha", folder_depth=-1)
```

`Folder.full_path` is exposed on folder objects, and `Document.folder_path` mirrors server responses for tracing scope.

### Asynchronous Usage

```python
import asyncio
from morphik.async_ import AsyncMorphik

async def main():
    # Initialize async client - connects to localhost:8000 by default
    async with AsyncMorphik() as db:

    # You can also use a direct HTTP(S) base URL for self-hosted deployments
    # async with AsyncMorphik("http://morphik:8000") as db:

    # Or with authentication URI (for production)
    # async with AsyncMorphik("morphik://owner_id:token@api.morphik.ai") as db:
        # Ingest a text document
        doc = await db.ingest_text(
            content="Your document content",
            metadata={"title": "Example Document"}
        )

        doc_query = await db.query_document(
            file="path/to/document.pdf",
            prompt="Extract the parties and effective date.",
            ingestion_options={"ingest": True, "metadata": {"source": "contracts"}}
        )
        print(doc_query.structured_output)

        # Query with RAG
        response = await db.query(
            query="Summarize the key points in the document",
        )

        print(response.completion)

# Run the async function
asyncio.run(main())
```

## Features

- Document ingestion (text, files, directories)
- Semantic search and retrieval
- Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG)
- Morphik On-the-Fly document querying with optional ingestion follow-up
- Multi-user and multi-folder scoping
- Metadata filtering
- Document management

## Development

### Running Tests

To run the tests, first install the development dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r test_requirements.txt
```

Then run the tests:

```bash
# Run all tests (requires a running Morphik server)
pytest morphik/tests/ -v

# Run specific test modules
pytest morphik/tests/test_sync.py -v
pytest morphik/tests/test_async.py -v

# Skip tests if you don't have a running server
SKIP_LIVE_TESTS=1 pytest morphik/tests/ -v

# Specify a custom server URL for tests
MORPHIK_TEST_URL=http://custom-server:8000 pytest morphik/tests/ -v
```

### Example Usage Script

The SDK comes with an example script that demonstrates basic usage:

```bash
# Run synchronous example
python -m morphik.tests.example_usage

# Run asynchronous example
python -m morphik.tests.example_usage --async
```

The example script demonstrates:
- Text and file ingestion
- Creating folders and user scopes
- Retrieving chunks and documents
- Generating completions using RAG
- Batch operations and cleanup
